# Meeting:  Monday 07 JUNE 2025 12:00UTC

## Attendees

**Present:** Joshua Cornejo, Rui Zhao, Wout Slabbinck, Beatriz Esteves, Nicoletta Fornara, Gabriel Huecas, Rigo Wenning, Yassir Sellami, Irene (UPM), Simon Steyskal
**Chair:** Víctor
**Scribe:** Víctor
**Regrets:** 

## Link to previous meeting notes

[Meeting Notes 09 JUNE 2025](meeting-2025-06-09.md)

## Agenda + Notes

#### 1. Working Drafts   


#### 1.1 [ODRL Implementation Best Practices](https://w3c.github.io/odrl/bp/)
Owner: Victor  
Status: In Progress  
Open Issues: [Github](https://github.com/w3c/odrl/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22Implementation+Best+Practices%22)  
Notes: More examples will be added soon.
 
 
#### 1.2 [ODRL Data Spaces Profile](https://w3c.github.io/odrl/profile-dataspaces/)
Owner: Joaquin  
Status: Under Development  
Open Issues: [Github](https://github.com/w3c/odrl/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22Data+Spaces%22)  
Notes: No news.


#### 1.3 [ODRL Formal Semantics](https://w3c.github.io/odrl/formal-semantics/)
Owner: Nicoletta  
Status: In Progress  
Open Issues: [Github](https://github.com/w3c/odrl/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22Formal+Semantics%22)  
Notes: Changes in the spec have happened, please check: better structuring, better introduction. Description of the state of the world and the request. Examples being added in a new folder structure. Pending to be discussed the Evaluation Report.

 
#### 1.4 [ODRL Community Vocabulary](https://w3c.github.io/odrl/community-vocab/)
Owner: Beatriz  
Status: New  
Open Issues: [Github Issues](https://github.com/w3c/odrl/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22Community+Vocabulary%22)   
Notes: State of the world still under edition, after summer. 


#### 2. W3C Business

2.1. General Open Issues: [Github Issues](https://github.com/w3c/odrl/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3AW3C)   
Notes: TPAC 2025 will take place from 10-14 November 2025, with in-person meetings at the Kobe International Conference Center in
Japan. 

2.2 W3C ODRL Model/Vocab Recommendation Errata: [Github Issues](https://github.com/w3c/poe/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3AErratumRaised)  
Notes: This issue will be implemented and closed soon: https://github.com/w3c/poe/issues/315
 
#### 3. ODRL 3.0
Feedback on the following Roadmap brainstorm https://github.com/w3c/odrl/wiki/Roadmap-brainstorm are welcome.
Contributions from some German participants, but not many other comments. 
Joshua: Besides authorisation, other operations are necessary such as "how to compare policies". Lack of normalisation.
Beatriz: we are also collecting templates
Victor: we need to host the use cases collection within the ODRL realm.
Rui: The following template might be useful: https://github.com/w3c/lws-ucs/issues/new?template=use-case.md
Proposal:
- Develop a template better aligned with ODRL needs (to be coordinated by Nicoletta and Víctor).
- Introduce a dedicated label for issues related to "use cases".
- Collect use cases collaboratively — anyone can create an issue and label it as a "use case".
- Discuss new issues, potentially through ad-hoc meetings.
- Create and maintain a single page (on GitHub) that compiles all mature issues. This page will serve as the public-facing document and may eventually evolve into the “final version” (assign responsible editors).Rigo: multiple ways in the current specification, but there should be a simple markup language to unify --"low code approach". 
Joshua: Yes, domain specific language to simplify the actual language.
Victor: should we establish a plan? Rigo: more related to W3C...

   
#### 4. Any other Business
Some members of this group met in the Dagstuhl Seminar here: https://www.dagstuhl.de/seminars/seminar-calendar/seminar-details/25271


## Next meeting

### Monday 07 JULY 2025

